.\"
.\" Clam Antivirus Client Library
.\" Copyright (C) 2009 David M. Syzdek <david@syzdek.net>
.\"
.\" @ACS_LICENSE_HEADER_START@
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
.\" with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
.\" 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.
.\"
.\" @ACS_LICENSE_HEADER_END@
.\"
.\" doc/clamavc.1 - man page for clamavc
.\"
.TH "CLAMAVC" "1" "June 2009" "Clam Antivirus Client" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
clamavc \- scans files for viruses using clamd
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBclamavc\fR [\fB-acr\fR] [\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR] [\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR] [\fB-s\fR \fIbytes\fR] [\fB--verbose\fR|\fB-v\fR] [\fIFILE\fR...]
.sp
\fBclamavc\fR [\fB--help\fR|\fB-H\fR] [\fB--version\fR|\fB-V\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBclamavc\fR utility reads files sequentially, scanning them for viruses
using a remote clam antivirus daemon. The \fIFILE\fR operands are processed in command-line
order. If \fIFILE\fR is a single dash (`-') or absent, cat reads from the
standard input. The utility returns an exit code of zero if no errors or
viruses are encountered.  The utility returns an exit code of one if an error
occurs or two if a virus is detected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-a\fR
Include hidden files
.TP
\fB\-c\fR
continue if virus is found
.TP
\fB-h\fR \fIhost\fR
sets the hostname of the clam daemon
.TP
\fB\-H\fR, \fB--help\fR
Displays usage information and exits.
.TP
\fB-p\fR \fIport\fR
sets the TCP port of the clam daemon
.TP
\fB\-q\fR, \fB--quiet\fR, \fB--silent\fR
Suppress warnings and non-fatal error messages.
.TP
\fB-r\fR
Recursively follow directories.
.TP
\fB-s\fR \fIbytes\fR
sets the max chunk size of the data stream
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB--verbose\fR
Enable verbose output.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB--version\fR
displays version number and exits.

.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs to <clamavc-devs@lists.sourceforge.net>.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR clamavc (3)
.\" end of man page
